# Zomato_Data_Analysis
Analyzing Zomato data can provide valuable insights into restaurant trends, customer preferences, and the food industry as a whole. Zomato is a popular restaurant discovery and food delivery platform, and it gathers a wealth of information that can be used for varvs types of analysis.
1. Data extraction  - We downloaded the data from kaggle.This Kaggle dataset contains information about 850 restaurants listed on the popular online food delivery and restaurant discovery platform, Zomato. The dataset provides a comprehensive collection of restaurant details, including their names, locations, ratings, cuisines, pricing, and more. This data is valuable for data analysis, market research, and gaining insights into the restaurant landscape in various cities.
Our data contains the following columns - 1. Restaurent Name 2. Dining Rating 3. Delivary Rating 4. Dining Votes 5. Delivery Votes 6. Cuisine 7. Place Name 8.City 9.Item name 10. Best Seller 11. Votes 12. Prices
2. Data Cleaning - We imported the import libraries such as numpy, pandas , matplotlib and seaborn. After that we load our dataset. We checked for null values and we found that dining rating, delivery rating and best seller contains the null values also we find the percentage of null values of the three attributes. Best seller contains 77 percent null values so unfortunately we will be dropping the best seller column as the null values accommodate more than 50 percent of the values. Also we will fill the null values of delivery and dining ratings with their mean value. After that we will remove the duplicate values from the dataset which is one of the important data preprocessing and cleaning step.Then we create a new attribute average rating by taking the arithmatic mean of dining rating and delivery rating. Then we exported this preprocessed and cleaned data into a new csv file that is we created a new csv file.
3. Visualization in python -
  1.We first counted the unqiue cities using value counts function and use matplotlib to plot the pie chart of the top 10 cities with most number of restaurents. Hyderabad      contains the most restaurents chains followed by Mumbai and followed by Chennai.
  2. We counted the unique item names also using value counts function and again use matplotlib to the bar chart of the top 5 most ordered food items across cities. So, we      found out that Veg fried rice is the most popular dish ordered on zomato according to the dataset , followed by panner butter masala , Jerra Rice, Chicken fried rice        and French Fries.
  3. After finding the correlation between prices and different attributes we found that prices are more corealted to average ratings , if avg ratings are high prices of         the item are high. that is higher price food are good in nutrition, quality and most importantly tasty thats why the ratings of these items are high.
  4. We plotted the bar chart of different restaurents and we find the top 5 biggest food chain that is most number of restaurents in these cities. McDonalds food chain         has the most number of restaurents followed by Fresh Menu , Burger King , Pizza hut and dominos.
4. Viusalization In Tableau -
    1. In Dashboard 1 we plotted 2 new plots both are bar chart depicting top 10 restaurents in Hyderabad and Mumbai. Exotica and Chaitanya are top rated restaurents in Hyderabad and Mumbai respectively.They are sorted in the decreasing order of average ratings
    2. We did the same with Chennai,   Banglore and Jaipur and Toscano , Truffles and Thali and more are the highest rated restaurents in terms of avg rating given by customers in Chennai, Banglore and Jaipur respectively.
    3. In dashboard 3 we plotted a graph which represents the top 10 cuisines. Beverages top the list, followed by pizza and fast food.
    4. Additionally, we plotted a double axis graph of avg rating and avg price of veg fried price which is the most popular dish between different cities. we can clearly see that the price of veg fried rice is almost same in different cities so we see the gap between avg rating and plot the lower the gap the better for customer as its will be highly rating which depicts it is be good in quality and taste and also price will lower. So after observing we came to conclusion that Ahmadabad, Mumbai, and Pune have better quality of veg fried rice and price is reasonable too.

   
